README.md, before:

# Building

Building hspiral requires GHC 8.6.5.

There are three ways to build `hspiral`:

#### Building with `cabal` 3 or higher

```
# cabal configure --enable-tests
# cabal build
# cabal test
```

If you don't want to run the tests, remove the `--enable-tests` flag from the command sequence above.

#### Building with `stack`

The `stack` build currently uses [LTS 14.27](https://www.stackage.org/lts-14.27).

```
stack build
stack test
```

#### Building with `make`

When `make` is used, packages installed by stack will be used. Note that using the stack package database requires that the version of GHC in your path is the same as the version of GHC included in the stack LTS. It also requires that stack has already built the packages this project requires, which can be accomplished by building once with `stack build`.

```
make
```

## Building the tests

Building the tests requires that `libltdl` and FFTW 3 are installed. On Ubuntu, that can be accomplished as follows:

```
sudo apt-get install libltdl-dev
sudo apt-get install libfftw3-dev
```

Once you have created the cabal sandbox and installed SPL's dependencies, you can also type `make` to build the executables explicitly.

## Building on a Mac

I installed the `fftw-3` port from MacPorts and then built a sandbox as follows:

```
# cabal install --only-dependencies --extra-include-dirs=/usr/include --extra-include-dirs=/opt/local/include --extra-lib-dirs=/usr/lib --extra-lib-dirs=/opt/local/lib
# cabal configure --extra-include-dirs=/usr/include --extra-include-dirs=/opt/local/include --extra-lib-dirs=/usr/lib --extra-lib-dirs=/opt/local/lib
```

# Command-line Flags

The `test` binary as well as the examples take optional command-line flags.

| Flag               | Description |
| ---                | --- |
| `-o` | Specify output file for generated code. |

## Code generation flags

The following flags control code generation:

| Flag               | Description |
| ---                | --- |
| `-fmax-unroll=INT` | Unroll loops up to the given size. |
| `-fline-pragmas` | Output #line pragmas in generated code. |
| `-fuse-complex` | Use the C99 `_Complex` type in generated code. |
| `-fthree-mult` | Use the 3-mult/5-add form of complex multiplication. |
| `-fstore-intermediate` | Always store the results of intermediate computations.|
| `-fcse` | Perform common subexpression elimination. |
| `-fsplit-complex` | Always split complex numbers into their real and imaginary parts upon assignment. |

Flag can be prefixed by `-fno-` to turn them off, e.g., `-fno-cse` will turn off common subexpression elimination.

By default, the flags `-fstore-intermediate`, `-fcse`, and `-fsplit-complex` are enabled.

The `-fno-split-complex` flag is useful mainly for examining generated complex values; with `-fsplit-complex`, complex values are split into their real and imaginary parts, so things like roots of unity are not nicely displayed.

## Debugging flags

The following flags control debugging output.

| Flag               | Description |
| ---                | --- |
| `-dtrace-cg` | Trace the code generator. |
| `-dgen-comments` | Add comments to blocks of code that specify which transform the block implements. |

# Examples

### `test`

Runs a small test suite.

### `opcount`

The `opcount` binary generates operation counts and, optionally, C code, for a hard-coded SPL formula.

### `dftgen`

The `dftgen` binary generates operation counts and, optionally, C code, for the forward DFT of the size it is given as an argument. It always uses the split radix decomposition.

### `search`

The `search` binary generates operation counts and, optionally, C code, for the forward DFT of the size it is given as an argument. It performs search to find the decomposition with the fewest operations.

### `voronenko`

Generates code for example(s) from Voronenko's dissertation (right now just the one on p. 35).

Should be run like this:

```
./voronenko -fmax-unroll=2 -fuse-complex
```

# Jupyter and `ihaskell`

To get Jupyter support, run the following commands:

```
virtualenv -p python3 env
source env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
stack install ihaskell-hatex
ihaskell install --stack
```

You can then start jupyter:

```
stack exec jupyter -- notebook --no-browser
```

You may need to install some prerequisites. See the [IHaskell web site](https://github.com/gibiansky/IHaskell) for details.

Commit message:

Add full and quick test suites.

README.md, after:

# Building

Building hspiral requires GHC 8.6.5.

There are three ways to build `hspiral`:

#### Building with `cabal` 3 or higher

```
# cabal configure --enable-tests
# cabal build
# cabal test
```

If you don't want to run the tests, remove the `--enable-tests` flag from the command sequence above.

#### Building with `stack`

The `stack` build currently uses [LTS 14.27](https://www.stackage.org/lts-14.27).

```
stack build
stack test
```

#### Building with `make`

When `make` is used, packages installed by stack will be used. Note that using the stack package database requires that the version of GHC in your path is the same as the version of GHC included in the stack LTS. It also requires that stack has already built the packages this project requires, which can be accomplished by building once with `stack build`.

```
make
```

## Building the tests

Building the tests requires that `libltdl` and FFTW 3 are installed. On Ubuntu, that can be accomplished as follows:

```
sudo apt-get install libltdl-dev
sudo apt-get install libfftw3-dev
```

Once you have created the cabal sandbox and installed SPL's dependencies, you can also type `make` to build the executables explicitly.

### Running the test suite

There are two test suites: the full test suite, and the quick test suite. They can be run from stack using the commands `stack test spl:test:full` and `stack test spl:test:quick`, respectively.

## Building on a Mac

I installed the `fftw-3` port from MacPorts and then built a sandbox as follows:

```
# cabal install --only-dependencies --extra-include-dirs=/usr/include --extra-include-dirs=/opt/local/include --extra-lib-dirs=/usr/lib --extra-lib-dirs=/opt/local/lib
# cabal configure --extra-include-dirs=/usr/include --extra-include-dirs=/opt/local/include --extra-lib-dirs=/usr/lib --extra-lib-dirs=/opt/local/lib
```

# Command-line Flags

The `test` binary as well as the examples take optional command-line flags.

| Flag               | Description |
| ---                | --- |
| `-o` | Specify output file for generated code. |

## Code generation flags

The following flags control code generation:

| Flag               | Description |
| ---                | --- |
| `-fmax-unroll=INT` | Unroll loops up to the given size. |
| `-fline-pragmas` | Output #line pragmas in generated code. |
| `-fuse-complex` | Use the C99 `_Complex` type in generated code. |
| `-fthree-mult` | Use the 3-mult/5-add form of complex multiplication. |
| `-fstore-intermediate` | Always store the results of intermediate computations.|
| `-fcse` | Perform common subexpression elimination. |
| `-fsplit-complex` | Always split complex numbers into their real and imaginary parts upon assignment. |

Flag can be prefixed by `-fno-` to turn them off, e.g., `-fno-cse` will turn off common subexpression elimination.

By default, the flags `-fstore-intermediate`, `-fcse`, and `-fsplit-complex` are enabled.

The `-fno-split-complex` flag is useful mainly for examining generated complex values; with `-fsplit-complex`, complex values are split into their real and imaginary parts, so things like roots of unity are not nicely displayed.

## Debugging flags

The following flags control debugging output.

| Flag               | Description |
| ---                | --- |
| `-dtrace-cg` | Trace the code generator. |
| `-dgen-comments` | Add comments to blocks of code that specify which transform the block implements. |

# Examples

### `test`

Runs a small test suite.

### `opcount`

The `opcount` binary generates operation counts and, optionally, C code, for a hard-coded SPL formula.

### `dftgen`

The `dftgen` binary generates operation counts and, optionally, C code, for the forward DFT of the size it is given as an argument. It always uses the split radix decomposition.

### `search`

The `search` binary generates operation counts and, optionally, C code, for the forward DFT of the size it is given as an argument. It performs search to find the decomposition with the fewest operations.

### `voronenko`

Generates code for example(s) from Voronenko's dissertation (right now just the one on p. 35).

Should be run like this:

```
./voronenko -fmax-unroll=2 -fuse-complex
```

# Jupyter and `ihaskell`

To get Jupyter support, run the following commands:

```
virtualenv -p python3 env
source env/bin/activate
pip install -r requirements.txt
stack install ihaskell-hatex
ihaskell install --stack
```

You can then start jupyter:

```
stack exec jupyter -- notebook --no-browser
```

You may need to install some prerequisites. See the [IHaskell web site](https://github.com/gibiansky/IHaskell) for details.
